ok so if we scientists are so
good at making these dire
long-term predictions about the
climate
how come we're so lousy about
predicting the weather besides
this year we had a cold winter
in my town for all the
scientists know we could be in
for global cooling is the
difference between weather and
climate weather is what the
atmosphere does in the short
term our to our day-to-day
weather is chaotic
which means that even a
microscopic disturbance can lead
to large-scale changes
that's why those 10 day weather
forecast are useless
a butterfly flaps its wings and
valley and six weeks later
your outdoor wedding in Maine is
ruined climate is the long-term
average of the weather over a
number of years
it's shaped by global forces
that author the energy balance
in the atmosphere such as
changes in the Sun tilt of the
Earth's axis amount of sunlight
the earth reflects back to space
and concentration of greenhouse
gases in the air
change in any of them affects
the climate in ways that are
broadly predictable my friends
meandering represents the
short-term fluctuations
that's weather
it's almost impossible to
predict will attract his
interest next not hard to know
what the range of his meandering
will be because I'm holding him
on a leash
we can observe climate directly
all we see is the weather
the average weather over the
course of years reveals a
pattern
I represent them long-term trend
which is climate
keep your eye on the man
not the dog
whether it's hard to predict
with my friend here but climate
is predictable climate has
changed many times to the long
history of the earth but always
in response to a global force
the strongest force driving
climate change right now is the
increasing co2 from the burning
of fossil fuels which is
trapping more heat from the Sun
all that additional energy has
to go somewhere
some of it warms the air most of
it ends up in the oceans all
over the world
the oceans are getting warmer